Qualifying Matches

Components integrated into the code are: one EV3 Color Sensor, one EV3 Gyro Sensor, one EV3 Large Motor “B”, and one EV3 Medium Motor “A”. When the program starts, two variables “Blue” and “Orange” are introduced then set to zero. Motor “A” is set to start at negative seventy-five speed; as it is an inverted motor and will move forward when speed is negative. Next, the gyro sensor angle is reset. Then, two “if conditions” are introduced after the Vehicle  starts moving via motor A. Whenever the color sensor sees the color orange the variable “Orange” is changed by one. Alternatively, when the color sensor sees the color blue the variable “Blue” is changed by one. These two “if conditions” are underneath a loop that repeatedly checks if “Orange” = 0 or “Blue” = 0. These “if conditions” were utilized to check whether the Vehicle  is moving clockwise or counterclockwise. When the color blue is detected, it means the Vehicle  is moving counterclockwise. If the color orange is detected via the color sensor, it means the Vehicle  is moving clockwise. If the color blue is detected via the color sensor, it means the Vehicle  is moving clockwise. Now, as for turns. Whenever the color orange is detected. Motor B runs for fifty-eight degrees at one hundred speeds until the angle of the gyro sensor is greater than ninety degrees. Next, motor A is stopped and motor B runs for negative sixty-five degrees at one hundred speeds. Then, motor B is set to "hold position" at stop and motor A is started at negative fifty speed. In contrast, when the color blue is detected, Motor B runs for negative fifty-eight degrees at one hundred speeds until the angle of the gyro sensor is greater than ninety degrees. Next, motor A is stopped and motor B runs for sixty-five degrees at a hundred speed. Then, motor B is set to "hold position" at stop and motor A is started at negative seventy-five speed. This program is responsible for moving the Vehicle  based on the orange and blue lines. Next, is the program for moving the Vehicle  farther from inner borders. Because the vehicle has steering wheels, it does not move forward in a straight line. So, the vehicle is programmed to correct its lane every time it goes off-track. A variable named “X” is introduced and set to  [ [(“Orange” x 90) - gyro sensor’s angle ] x 2 ]. Then, Motor B is set to run for “X” degrees. 

Final Matches
Components integrated into the code are: one EV3 Distance Sensor, two EV3 Color Sensor, one EV3 Gyro Sensor, one EV3 Large Motor “B”, and one EV3 Medium Motor “A”. When the program starts, two variables “Blue” and “Orange” are introduced then set to zero. Motor “A” is set to start at negative seventy-five speed; as it is an inverted motor and will move forward when speed is negative. Next, the gyro sensor angle is reset. Then, two “if conditions” are introduced after the Vehicle  starts moving via motor A. Whenever the color sensor sees the color orange the variable “Orange” is changed by one. Alternatively, when the color sensor sees the color blue the variable “Blue” is changed by one. These two “if conditions” are underneath a loop that repeatedly checks if “Orange” = 0 or “Blue” = 0. These “if conditions” were utilized to check whether the Vehicle  is moving clockwise or counterclockwise. When the color blue is detected, it means the Vehicle  is moving counterclockwise. If the color orange is detected via the color sensor, it means the Vehicle  is moving clockwise. If the color blue is detected via the color sensor, it means the Vehicle  is moving clockwise. Now, as for turns. Whenever the color orange is detected. Motor B runs for fifty-eight degrees at one hundred speeds until the angle of the gyro sensor is greater than ninety degrees. Next, motor A is stopped and motor B runs for negative sixty-five degrees at one hundred speeds. Then, motor B is set to "hold position" at stop and motor A is started at negative fifty speed. In contrast, when the color blue is detected, Motor B runs for negative fifty-eight degrees at one hundred speeds until the angle of the gyro sensor is greater than ninety degrees. Next, motor A is stopped and motor B runs for sixty-five degrees at a hundred speed. Then, motor B is set to "hold position" at stop and motor A is started at negative seventy-five speed. This program is responsible for moving the Vehicle  based on the orange and blue lines. Next, is the code responsible for moving the Vehicle  farther from inner borders. Moreover, because the vehicle has steering wheels, it does not move forward in a straight line. So, the vehicle is programmed to correct its lane every time it goes off-track. A variable named “X” is introduced and set to  [ [(“Orange” x 90) - gyro sensor’s angle ] x 2 ]. Then, Motor B is set to run for “X” degrees. In addition, another program is run in these matches. To start, an if condition is introduced at the beginning of the program. If the distance sensor detects anything in 30cm (traffic lights) another if condition is introduced. If the color of the object seen is red, motor A will run for one rotation, motor B will run at negative thirty degrees at seventy-five degrees, waits for a second, runs for negative sixty degrees at a hundred speeds, waits for a second, and finally for thirty degrees at a hundred speeds. Else, if the distance sensor detects any objects in 30cm and the object seen is green, motor A will run for one rotations, motor B will run at thirty degrees at seventy-five degrees, waits for a second, run for negative sixty degrees at a hundred speeds, waits for a second, and finally for thirty degrees at a hundred speeds. This will be in charge of avoiding the traffic lights as well as turning right/left when the traffic light is green/red.
